doc(bpmn_visu): documentation for Fred on how to find and use case/process visu (#2083)
bonitasoft/bonita-doc: modules/pages-and-forms/pages/customize-display-process-monitoring.adoc

= How to customize the display of process execution monitoring
:page-aliases: ROOT:customize-display-process-monitoring.adoc

> :description: Learn how to modify the process/case visualization page using the UI Designer, or embed the BPMN diagram fragment in your own page.

Reviewer: Something is missing to indicate that this feature is only available in efficiency, performance and enterprise subscription editions

{description}

== Modify the process or case visualization page

> You may want to re-use the process or case visualization page from the *_Administrator Application_*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may want to re-use the content of process or case visualization page from the *_Administrator Application_*.
```

To do so:

. From Bonita Studio coolbar, click on the *_Applications_* icon, and open the *_Administrator Application_*
. Go to the *_Resources_* menu, filter by page, and find the *_Bonita Admin Process Visualization_*  or *_Bonita Admin Case Visualization_* page (you may have to click on the *_Load more resources_* link)
. Export the page by clicking on the *_Export_* button image:images/images-6_0/pb-export.png[Export button]

> . From Bonita Studio coolbar, click on the *_UI Designer_* icon to open the UI Designer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From Bonita Studio coolbar, click on the *_UI Designer_* icon to open Bonita UI Designer
```

. Import the page in the UI Designer

You can now rename and modify the page for your needs, and use it in any Bonita application.

== Embed the BPMN diagram fragment in your own page

=== Understanding the fragment

You may be interested in embedding the BPMN diagram only in your page.
To do so, follow the steps above to import the process or case visualization page in the UI Designer.
Doing this, a new fragment appears in the UI Designer home page, in the *_Fragments_* tab: *_fragmentProcessVisu_* or *_fragmentCaseVisu_*.

Open it, to understand its content. +
As you can see, it embeds the *_bpmnVisu_* custom widget, and includes some variables to get the BPMN diagram, and information about the process or case. +

> Note that it also includes a variable to check the licence, and another one (*_allCaseInfo_*) dedicated for testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that it also includes a variable to check the availability of the feature, and another one (*_allCaseInfo_*) dedicated for testing.
```

image:images/process-visu-fragment-variables.png[Process visualization fragment variables]

[NOTE]
====
The processId (or caseId) variable is shown as *_Exposed_*: this means the variable is defined in the hosting page: this is the interface between the page and the fragment.
====

=== Embed the fragment in your page

> Now, you can open your page, and drag & drop the fragment in your page, from the *_Fragments_* tab of the library panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can open your page, and drag & drop the fragment in your page, from the *_Fragments_* tab of the palette.
```

> Selecting the fragment in the white screen, you can see a *_Bindable fragment data_* section in the property panel: this is the interface with the fragment, where you provide the caseId or processId.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selecting the fragment in the white board, you can see a *_Bindable fragment data_* section in the properties panel: this is the interface with the fragment, where you provide the caseId or processId.
```

From your page, create a processId or caseId variable, which will contain the id of the required process or case you want to monitor.

image:images/process-visu-page-fragment.png[Process visualization page fragment variable, 300]

[NOTE]
====

> The BPMN diagram display is provided by the xref:https://github.com/process-analytics[Process Analytics] bpmn-visualization library, an open-source TypeScript library for visualizing process execution data on BPMN diagrams. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BPMN diagram display is provided by the https://github.com/process-analytics[Process Analytics] https://github.com/process-analytics/bpmn-visualization-js[bpmn-visualization library], an open-source TypeScript library for visualizing process execution data on BPMN diagrams. +
```
